K8s/ingress setup docs (#8291)
hashicorp/consul: website/pages/docs/k8s/connect/ingress-gateways.mdx

description: Configuring Ingress Gateways on Kubernetes
---

# Ingress Gateways on Kubernetes

-> 1.8.0+: This feature is available in Consul versions 1.8.0 and higher

~> This topic requires familiarity with [Ingress Gateways](/docs/connect/ingress-gateway).

This page describes how to enable external access to Connect service mesh services running inside Kubernetes using Consul ingress gateways.
See [Ingress Gateways](/docs/connect/ingress-gateway) for more information on use-cases and how it works.

Adding an ingress gateway is a multi-step process that consists of the following steps:

* Setting the helm chart configuration
* Deploying the helm chart
* Configuring the gateway
* Defining an Intention (if ACLs are enabled)
* Deploying your application to Kubernetes
* Connecting to your application

## Setting the helm chart configuration
When deploying the helm chart you must provide helm with a custom yaml file that contains your environment configuration.

> ```shell

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```yaml
```

```shell-session
$ cat > config.yaml <<EOF
connectInject:
  enabled: true
ingressGateways:
  enabled: true
  gateways:
    - name: ingress-gateway
      replicas: 2
      service:

>        type: LoadBalancer

Reviewer: This will expose their cluster with a public load balancer. Can you add a security note that this is what will happen and that they should ensure they delete the LB afterwards.

The gateways stanza is where you will define and configure the set of ingress gateways you want deployed to your environment.
The only required field for each entry is `name`, though entries may contain any of the fields found in the `defaults` stanza.
Values in this section override the values from the defaults stanza for the given ingress gateway with one exception:
the annotations from the defaults stanza will be *appended* to any user-defined annotations defined in the gateways stanza rather than being overridden.
Please refer to the ingress gateway configuration [documentation](/docs/k8s/helm#v-ingressgateways-defaults) for a detailed explanation of each option.

-> *Note*: Make sure any ports that will be used as listeners in the ingress gateway's Consul config entry are included in the `ports` object for each gateway.

## Deploying the helm chart

Ensure you have the latest consul-helm chart and install Consul via helm using the following
[guide](/docs/k8s/installation/overview#installing-consul) while being sure to provide the yaml configuration
as previously discussed.

## Configuring the gateway

> Now that Kubernetes has been updated, you must add the corresponding configuration to Consul. This requires you to use the Consul CLI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that Consul has been installed with ingress gateways enabled, you must add the corresponding configuration to Consul. This requires you to use the Consul CLI.
```

```

> ## Registering a service with Consul

Reviewer: This isn't registering a service, it's configuring the ingress gateway

> * Accessing the Consul agent

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Accessing the Consul server
```

We can use a client or server but the docs below use the server so we can just say server here

* Submitting an Ingress Gateway configuration entry to Consul

> ### Accessing the Consul agent

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Accessing the Consul server
```

> Registering a service with Consul is a multi-step process that consists of:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Configuring the ingress gateway requires:
```

> You can access the Consul server directly from your host via `kubectl port-forward`, this is helpful for interacting with the Consul UI locally as well as validating connectivity of the application.

Reviewer: Did you mean interacting with the Consul UI or CLI? I guess both are true, just checking.

```shell-session

> $ kubectl port-foward consul-server-0 8500 &

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ kubectl port-forward consul-server-0 8500 &
```

```
-> If TLS is enabled use port 8501

> -> Be sure the latest Consul binary is installed locally on your host.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-> Download the latest Consul binary from [Downloads](/downloads.html).
```

> $ kubectl port-foward <consul-release>-server-0 8500 &

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ kubectl port-foward consul-server-0 8500 &
```

If you use `global.name: consul` these instructions can be standardized

Reviewer: If TLS is enabled, they will need to port-forward to 8501

> -> If TLS is enabled set:

Reviewer: This formatting doesn't work
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1034429/87363402-f13d2700-c525-11ea-8950-3f792c27ae18.png)

I think you can include these two steps outside of the `->` and just as normal text.

-> Be sure the latest consul binary is installed locally on your host.

> [https://releases.hashicorp.com/consul/1.8.0/](https://releases.hashicorp.com/consul/1.8.0/)

Reviewer: Just link to the downloads page on consul.io, this link will get out of date and doesn't have the nice instructions on the downloads page

> -> If TLS and ACLs are enabled, you must set the following environment variables.

Reviewer: TLS and ACLs are separate concerns, this needs to be split into: If TLS is enabled, set `export CONSUL_HTTP_ADDR=https://localhost:8501`, `export CONSUL_HTTP_SSL_VERIFY=false`

If ACLs are enabled, set `export CONSUL_HTTP_TOKEN=$(kubectl get secret consul-bootstrap-acl-token -o jsonpath={.data.token} | base64 -D)`

☝️ is a good example of why setting global.name is so important, this one liner can just be copy pasted.

```shell-session
$ export CONSUL_HTTP_ADDR=https://localhost:8501

> $ export CONSUL_HTTP_TOKEN=$(kubectl get secret <consul-release>--acl-bootstrap-token -o jsonpath={.data.token} | base64 -D)

Author: ```suggestion
$ export CONSUL_HTTP_TOKEN=$(kubectl get secret <consul-release>-bootstrap-acl-token -o jsonpath={.data.token} | base64 -D)
```

```

### Submitting an Ingress Gateway configuration entry

> Now that you have access to the Consul CLI you are able to submit an ingress gateway configuration entry.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that you have access to a Consul server through the forwarded port and you have the Consul CLI configured locally, you are able to submit an ingress gateway configuration entry.
```

Here is an ingress gateway configuration.

> ```shell

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```hcl
```

> Now that you have access to the Consul cli you are able to submit an ingress gateway configuration entry.

Reviewer: Do we use CLI or cli in other locations?

> Here is an example service definition.

Reviewer: This isn't a service definition, it's an ingress gateway config

Kind = "ingress-gateway"
Name = "ingress-gateway"

Listeners = [
 {
   Port = 8080
   Protocol = "http"
   Services = [
     {
       Name = "static-server"
     }
   ]
 }
]
```

Submit the ingress gateway configuration with the Consul CLI using this command.

```shell-session
$ consul config write ingress-gateway.hcl
```

> -> You can confirm the ingress gateways have been configured as expected by looking at the Consul UI: http://localhost:8500/ui/dc1/services/ingress-gateway/

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can confirm the ingress gateways have been configured as expected by looking at the Consul UI: [http://localhost:8500/ui/dc1/services/ingress-gateway/](http://localhost:8500/ui/dc1/services/ingress-gateway/).

If TLS is enabled, use [https://localhost:8501/ui/dc1/services/ingress-gateway/](https://localhost:8501/ui/dc1/services/ingress-gateway/).
```

I don't think these two instructions need to be in blue info boxes because they seem like required steps in the walkthrough, but totally up to you.

```

> -> You can confirm service registration by looking at the consul-ui : http://localhost:8500/ui/dc1/services/ingress-gateway/

Reviewer: Again, this isn't a service registration. Maybe you can say you can confirm that ingress gateways have been configured as expected by looking at.

Also if TLS is enabled then you'll need `https` and `8501`

## Defining an Intention

> If ACLs are enabled, you must define an [intention](/docs/commands/intention) to allow the ingress gateway to access the upstream services defined in the config entries.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If ACLs are enabled, you must define an [intention](/docs/connect/intentions) to allow the ingress gateway to access the upstream services defined in the config entry.

To create an intention that allows the ingress gateway to route to the service `static-server`, run:
$$$shell-session
$ consul intention create ingress-gateway static-server
$$$

```
(replace the dollar signs with backticks)

I think it makes more sense to link to the page about intentions in general rather than the `consul intention` cli command docs.

It's just one config entry at this point I think.

> If ACLs are enabled, you can define an [intention](https://www.consul.io/docs/commands/intention) to allow the ingress gateway to access the upstream services defined in the config entries.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If ACLs are enabled, you must define an [intention](/docs/commands/intention) to allow the ingress gateway to access the upstream services defined in the config entries.
```

## Deploying your application to Kubernetes

> Now you will deploy a sample application which echos “hello world”

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now you will deploy a sample application which echoes “hello world”
```

> ```shell

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```yaml
```

> -> If you are using ACLs, you must create an intention to enable inter-service communication.

Reviewer: This is kind of duplicated what was just said

apiVersion: v1
kind: ServiceAccount
metadata:
  name: static-server
---
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: static-server
  annotations:
    'consul.hashicorp.com/connect-inject': 'true'
spec:
  containers:
    # This name will be the service name in Consul.
    - name: static-server
      image: hashicorp/http-echo:latest
      args:
        - -text="hello world"
        - -listen=:8080
      ports:
        - containerPort: 8080
          name: http
    # If ACLs are enabled, the serviceAccountName must match the Consul service name.
  serviceAccountName: static-server
```

```shell-session

> kubectl apply -f static-server.yaml

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ kubectl apply -f static-server.yaml
```

```

## Connecting to your application

You can validate the service is running and registered in the Consul UI by navigating to

> `http://localhost:8500/ui/dc1/services/static-server/instances`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[http://localhost:8500/ui/dc1/services/static-server/instances](http://localhost:8500/ui/dc1/services/static-server/instances)
```

> -> If TLS is enabled use port 8501

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-> If TLS is enabled, use [https://localhost:8501/ui/dc1/services/static-server/instances](https://localhost:8501/ui/dc1/services/static-server/instances)
```

> You can also validate the connectivity of the application using a curl command

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also validate the connectivity of the application from the ingress gateway using `curl`:
```

```shell-session

> EXTERNAL_IP=$(kubectl get services | grep ingress-gateway | awk ‘{print $4}’)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ EXTERNAL_IP=$(kubectl get services | grep ingress-gateway | awk ‘{print $4}’)
```

> You can validate the connectivity of the application in the consul-ui by navigating to

Reviewer: I think we say Consul UI.

Also Consul needs to be capitalized throughout

Reviewer: This isn't validating connectivity, this is validating the service is running and registered

> curl -H "Host: static-server.ingress.consul" $EXTERNAL_IP:8080

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ curl -H "Host: static-server.ingress.consul" $EXTERNAL_IP:8080
```

> `http://localhost:8500/ui/dc1/services/static-server/instances`

Reviewer: need other URL as well in case of TLL

```

> -> *Note:* Please be sure to delete the application and services created here as they represent a security risk through

Reviewer: ```suggestion
~> **Security Warning:** Please be sure to delete the application and services created here as they represent a security risk through
```

The tilde makes it a red security warning.

> leaving an open and unathenticated load balancer alive in your cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
leaving an open and unauthenticated load balancer alive in your cluster.
```
Can you add

To delete the ingress gateway, set `enabled` to `false` in your Helm configuration:
```
global:
  name: consul
connectInject:
  enabled: true
ingressGateways:
  enabled: false # Set to false
  gateways:
    - name: ingress-gateway
      replicas: 2
      service:
       type: LoadBalancer
```

And run Helm upgrade:
```
$ helm upgrade consul hashicorp/consul -f config.yaml
```

> EXTERNAL_IP=kubectl get services | grep ingress-gateway | awk ‘{print $4}’

Reviewer: does this work? Looks like it's missing `$()`

Would be better to use jsonpath here rather than awk, not a big deal

Author: good catch thanks!

> ```

Reviewer: Can you add a clean up step, this leaves them with an unauthenticated load balancer routing plaintext into their cluster

EOF
```

The gateways stanza is where you will define and configure the set of ingress gateways you want deployed to your environment.
The only required field for each entry is `name`, though entries may contain any of the fields found in the `defaults` stanza.
Values in this section override the values from the defaults stanza for the given ingress gateway with one exception.
The annotations from the defaults stanza will be appended to any user-defined annotations defined in the gateways stanza.
Please refer to the ingress gateway configuration [documentation](https://www.consul.io/docs/k8s/helm#v-ingressgateways-defaults) for a detailed explanation of each option.

-> Note: Make sure any ports that will be used as listeners in the ingress gateway's Consul config entry are included in the `ports` object for each gateway.

## Deploying the helm chart

Ensure you have the latest consul-helm chart by running the following command:

```shell-session
 $ helm repo add hashicorp https://helm.releases.hashicorp.com
```

Assuming you saved your configuration to a file called config.yaml in the local directory, you can apply your configuration with the following command:

```shell-session

> $ helm install -f config.yaml consul hashicorp/consul --wait

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
$ helm install -f config.yaml <consul-release> hashicorp/consul --wait
```
This makes it match the later commands. Otherwise, the uninitiated might not realize they can name this whatever they want or that it is the value to supply in the later commands.

[https://releases.hashicorp.com/consul/1.8.0/](https://releases.hashicorp.com/consul/1.8.0/)

-> If TLS and ACLs are enabled, you must set the following environment variables.

```shell-session
$ export CONSUL_HTTP_ADDR=https://localhost:8501
$ export CONSUL_HTTP_TOKEN=$(kubectl get secret <consul-release>--acl-bootstrap-token -o jsonpath={.data.token} | base64 -D)
$ export CONSUL_HTTP_SSL_VERIFY=false
```

### Submitting an Ingress Gateway configuration entry

Now that you have access to the Consul cli you are able to submit an ingress gateway configuration entry.
Here is an example service definition.

```shell-session
$  cat > ingress-gateway.hcl <<EOF
Kind = "ingress-gateway"
Name = "ingress-gateway"

Listeners = [
 {
   Port = 8080
   Protocol = "http"
   Services = [
     {
       Name = "static-server"
     }
   ]
 }
]
EOF
```

Submit the ingress gateway service definition with the Consul cli using this command.

```shell-session
$ consul config write ingress-gateway.hcl
```

-> You can confirm service registration by looking at the consul-ui : http://localhost:8500/ui/dc1/services/ingress-gateway/

## Defining an Intention

> If ACLs are enabled you can define an [intention](https://www.consul.io/docs/commands/intention) to allow the ingress gateway to access the upstream services defined in the config entries.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If ACLs are enabled, you can define an [intention](https://www.consul.io/docs/commands/intention) to allow the ingress gateway to access the upstream services defined in the config entries.
```

description: Configuring Ingress Gateways on Kubernetes
---

# Ingress Gateways on Kubernetes

-> 1.8.0+: This feature is available in Consul versions 1.8.0 and higher

~> This topic requires familiarity with [Ingress Gateways](/docs/connect/ingress-gateway).

This page describes how to enable external access to Connect service mesh services running inside Kubernetes using Consul ingress gateways.
See [Ingress Gateways](/docs/connect/ingress-gateway) for more information on use-cases and how it works.

Adding an ingress gateway is a multi-step process that consists of the following steps:

* Setting the helm chart configuration
* Deploying the helm chart
* Configuring the gateway
* Defining an Intention (if ACLs are enabled)
* Deploying your application to Kubernetes
* Connecting to your application

## Setting the helm chart configuration
When deploying the helm chart you must provide helm with a custom yaml file that contains your environment configuration.

```yaml
global:
  name: consul
connectInject:
  enabled: true
ingressGateways:
  enabled: true
  gateways:
    - name: ingress-gateway

>       replicas: 2

Reviewer 3: This also shows up in the config file quoted in the cleanup section.

>       replicas: 2

Author: Good catch, I do not think it is necessary!
will clean up both.

The yaml snippet is the launching point for a valid configuration that must be supplied when installing using the [official consul-helm chart](https://hub.helm.sh/charts/hashicorp/consul).
Information on additional options can be found in the [Helm reference](/docs/k8s/helm). Configuration options for ingress gateways reside under the [ingressGateways](/docs/k8s/helm#v-ingressgateways) entry.

The gateways stanza is where you will define and configure the set of ingress gateways you want deployed to your environment.
The only required field for each entry is `name`, though entries may contain any of the fields found in the `defaults` stanza.
Values in this section override the values from the defaults stanza for the given ingress gateway with one exception:
the annotations from the defaults stanza will be *appended* to any user-defined annotations defined in the gateways stanza rather than being overridden.
Please refer to the ingress gateway configuration [documentation](/docs/k8s/helm#v-ingressgateways-defaults) for a detailed explanation of each option.

> -> *Note*: Make sure any ports that will be used as listeners in the ingress gateway's Consul config entry are included in the `ports` object for each gateway.

Reviewer 3: It could be helpful to mention that ports 8080 and 8443 are exposed for traffic by default.

## Deploying the helm chart

Ensure you have the latest consul-helm chart and install Consul via helm using the following
[guide](/docs/k8s/installation/overview#installing-consul) while being sure to provide the yaml configuration
as previously discussed.

## Configuring the gateway

Now that Consul has been installed with ingress gateways enabled, you must add the corresponding configuration to Consul. This requires you to use the Consul CLI.
Configuring the ingress gateway requires:

* Accessing the Consul server
* Submitting an Ingress Gateway configuration entry to Consul

### Accessing the Consul server

You can access the Consul server directly from your host via `kubectl port-forward`, this is helpful for interacting with the Consul UI locally as well as validating connectivity of the application.

```shell-session
$ kubectl port-forward consul-server-0 8500 &
```
-> If TLS is enabled use port 8501

> -> Download the latest Consul binary from [Downloads](/downloads.html).

Reviewer 3: Should this be the binary that matches what they've installed? I'm wondering if a version mismatch would cause any problems.

Author: Good point, I think with the combination of the notes at the top of the page regarding version requirements and this link pointing to at least those versions it should be okay, what do you think?

[https://releases.hashicorp.com/consul/](https://releases.hashicorp.com/consul/)

-> If TLS is enabled set:
```shell-session
$ export CONSUL_HTTP_ADDR=https://localhost:8501
```

-> If ACLs are enabled set :
```shell-session
$ export CONSUL_HTTP_TOKEN=$(kubectl get secret consul-bootstrap-acl-token -o jsonpath={.data.token} | base64 -D)
$ export CONSUL_HTTP_SSL_VERIFY=false
```

### Submitting an Ingress Gateway configuration entry

> Now that you have access to a Consul server through the forwarded port and you have the Consul CLI configured locally, you are able to submit an ingress gateway configuration entry.

Reviewer 3: We should probably link this to the full [ingress gateway config entry](https://www.consul.io/docs/connect/ingress-gateway#ingress-gateway-configuration) docs page, though the meat of that is really in the [config entry](https://www.consul.io/docs/agent/config-entries) doc. The first is probably better since the second can be found from there.

Reviewer 3: Ah, this is better: https://www.consul.io/docs/agent/config-entries/ingress-gateway

Here is an ingress gateway configuration.

```hcl
Kind = "ingress-gateway"
Name = "ingress-gateway"

Listeners = [
 {
   Port = 8080
   Protocol = "http"
   Services = [
     {
       Name = "static-server"
     }
   ]
 }
]
```

Submit the ingress gateway configuration with the Consul CLI using this command.

```shell-session
$ consul config write ingress-gateway.hcl
```

> You can confirm the ingress gateways have been configured as expected by looking at the Consul UI: [http://localhost:8500/ui/dc1/services/ingress-gateway/](http://localhost:8500/ui/dc1/services/ingress-gateway/).

Reviewer 3: Do we need to tell them what they're looking for in the UI?
